---
title: Theoretical Condensed Matter
date: 2023-09-26 03:00:00 +0300
math: true
image:
  path: /Files/Pics/hc.png
  alt: Kitaev honeycomb lattice
categories: [Physics, Condensed Matter Theory]
---
<div style="text-align: center;">
  <a href="/Files/PDFs/CndMttrRP.pdf">Prototypical Quantum Spin Hamiltonians in the Language of
Jordan-Wigner Fermions</a>
<br>
<a href="/Files/PDFs/CndMttrPres.pdf">Jordan Wigner Presentation</a> 
</div>

$$Abstract$$

>We present here the Jordan-Wigner solutions to three prototypical spin 1/2 Hamiltonians. In particular, we consider the 1D transverse Ising model, XY model, and Kitaev honeycomb model. After transforming the Hamiltonian to spinless fermions via Jordan-Wigner transformation, we employ Fourier transform then Bogoliubov transformation to diagonalize the Hamiltonian exactly. Moreover, the spectrum of elementary excitations as well as the ground-state energy are examined. In addition, some correlation functions of the solved models are covered briefly. Lastly, the research problem of an extension to the Kitaev model is introduced.

# Background

I have been exposed to theoretical condensed matter as part of my undergraduate research course, under the supervision of [Dr. Michael Vogl](https://sites.google.com/view/michaelvogl/home?authuser=0). I developed a a special interest for using Jordan-Wigner transformations to solve Kitaev honeycomb model. Look at these transformations, they're beautiful!

$$\sigma_{ij}^+=2\left[\prod_{j'<j}\prod_{i'}\sigma_{i'j'}^z\right]\left[\prod_{i'<i}\sigma_{i'j}^z\right]c^\dagger_{ij}$$

$$\sigma_{ij}^-=2c_{ij}\left[\prod_{j'<j}\prod_{i'}\sigma_{i'j'}^z\right]\left[\prod_{i'<i}\sigma_{i'j}^z\right]$$
